there's frisbee and there's golf and
then there's disc golf when you play
disc golf that's the sound you want to
hear more than a hundred disc golf
players their bags packed with discs
descend on Arvada in April for a
statewide tournament the seventh annual
Spring Fling 2010 is held at the popular
Johnny Roberts Memorial disc golf course
right behind our battle City Hall with
more than 40 years experience in several
championship titles to his name John
Byrd is a disc golf pioneer as president
of the mile high disc golf club in
Arvada he sponsors the tournament and
nurtures future stars up the ladder
there of all ages and divisions from
juniors all the way up to Grand Master's
from the amateur to the pros
pros will be competing for cash amateurs
for prizes and just like in golf it can
be fun it can be frustrating and it can
be competitive Johnson Austin there's
just something about it I mean it's
something that you're controlling you're
in charge of where it goes you know when
you step up when you first start playing
you're throwing at 50 feet and after a
couple years you get good you're
throwing at 700 feet there's it's real
gratifying seeing that thing go a long
way
Chauncey Donaldson knows how to make
that disc sale and his accuracy is
dead-on about 15 years ago Donaldson was
one of the top 10 disc golfers in the
world I had a weird kind of path that I
took I was a natural at the game so I
picked it up real fast and I think I
maybe played six months as an amateur
and I turned pro right away because I
always realized that the only way to get
good is by playing around people are
better than you so I started playing pro
when I was 12 13 years old Donaldson
grew up right across the street from the
park as a young boy he'd help the
golfers fish their discs out of Ralston
Creek one day they invited him to play
and he's been hooked ever since
I know every square inch of this park
I've pretty much grown up in it spent
hours upon hours out here every day for
10 years straight for a young boy who
just lost his dad the timing in his life
was perfect yep they're all family I
mean a lot of these guys have known for
20 years and growing up without you know
that father figure in the household a
lot of these guys took that spot guys
like John Bird he was a real
up-and-coming star but it's really tough
to make it out there on the road at that
time because there just wasn't enough
money to really support somebody doing
all the traveling
in such a friendly free-spirited
community it didn't take long for
Donaldson's younger and equally
competitive sister to get hooked as well
I went to tournaments and watched them
for about a year and then I got tired of
watching him picked up a disc and
started playing myself she was 12 years
old bed and soon became one of the top
disc golfers in the state
she and her brother competed in the
Junior World Championships I helped
coach him a little bit here and there to
get the Chauncey his title for sure a
lot of terms together a lot practice
together we traveled together we do
everything together
as with any sport practice makes perfect
if you just want to come out and have a
good time you don't have to practice you
can practice while you play if you
really want to be good and you know
trying to go far in the game you really
have to every day seven days a week 365
days a year
sometimes the shots go well nice shot
sometimes they don't and don't be fooled
throwing a disc is different from
throwing a frisbee it's totally
different you know these things weigh a
lot more than a regular frisbee they're
a lot sharper they're a lot faster you
know it's just totally different
technique there are similarities however
with the traditional game of golf same
rules apply as golf you have a few ox
you have a target that you're going for
so calling it you know a hole we call it
a basket the discs can cost anywhere
from seven dollars to a hundred and
they're not all made the same so you
have drivers and then you have mid-range
discs and you have putters each of them
have a consistent and different beveled
edge to them which allow for different
flight plans
when you grip a disc you'd rip it much
like you would a club or a racket
there's a lot of direction and power and
force involved in frisbee and disc golf
it's not so much like throwing the
traditional frisbee which is more of a
gingerly toss that allows the disc a
foot flat and fly straight
the sport really started to catch on in
the 1970s a championship player named
Johnny Roberts helped spread the joy of
disc golf to others that's why this 16
acre course in Arvada now bears his name
in 1993 the baskets were put in and
since then the sport has just exploded
so now that the park is just crowded
almost any nice afternoon Chauncey and
Sabrina don't play as competitively as
they used to but the passion is in their
blood as long as I can walk even if I'm
in a wheelchair I'll still play I'll
always play this game I love it it's
just really relaxing for me you know
especially after a stressful day at work
just come out here and play some disc
golf and all your worries go away like
myself you can play it you know and your
senior years and enjoyed this as much
you did when you're younger great
friendships great exercise and great
scenery not a bad way to spend the day
especially if you get to hear that sound
you